# Signal Handling  

- A signal is a notification to a process that an event has occured.
- A signal is a disturbance to normal program execution.
- When a program is executing because of some reason if the program execution get disturbed we need to say the process got a signal.
- Signals are sometime described as software interrupts.

  Signal handling in Linux is a mechanism that allows a process to handle asynchronous events, typically external interruptions. Signals are sent by the kernel or other processes to notify a process about various events, such as user actions, system conditions, or errors.

## Default Signal Actions:

Each signal has a default action:
- Terminate: Ends the process.
- Ignore: No action taken.
- Core Dump: Process dumps core (used for debugging).
- Stop: Pauses the process.
- Continue: Resumes a stopped process.


**Q**  
Who will receive the signal?  ans:The process   

The siganl may be received either synchronously /asynchronously depending on the source of the signal and the reason for the signal.  
Synchronous signal are delivered to the same process that perfromed the operation that cause the signal.  
When a signal is generated by an event external to the running process that process receives the signal asynchronously.  

## Sources of signal

Each signal is defined as unique small integer starting sequentially from 1.  
These integers are defined in signal.h with symbolic names of the form SIGxxxx  

For example when user input is interupted character  SIGINT (signal number 2) is delivered to process.  
Signal falls into two broad category .The first set is called traditional signal or standard signal which are used by the kernel to notify process of events.  
On `Linux` standard signals are from `1-31`  
The next set is realtime signal numbered from 32-63 lill -l (list of signal number and macros)  

- 1.SIGHUP
- 2.SIGINT(AC)
- 3.SIGQUIT
- 8.SIGFPE
- 9.SIGKILL
- 10.SIGUSR1
- 11.SIGSEGV
- 12.SIGUSR2
- 13.SIGPIPE
- 14.SIGALRM
- 17.SIGCHILD
- 18.SIGCONT
- 19.SIGSTOP
- 24.SIGXCPU
- 25.SIGXF32

  All signals whether synchronous or asynchronous follows the same pattern.
  - A signal is said to be generated by same event
  - Once generated a signal is later delivered to a process.
  - THe process then takes some action in response to the process ie signal is handled
 
Between the time it is generated and the time it is delivered a signal is said to be pending.  
The life of a signal startss when signal is genrated and its life ends when the signal manager delivers it to respective process.  

Every signal may be handled by one of two possible handler 
- Default handler
- user defined signal handler

Upon delivery of a signal ,a process comes at one of the followingg action  
- IGNORE -SIGCHILD
- Terminate -^c
- stop 19
- coredumb -^c+ addition works
- continue
